Q1. Why do we call Python as a general purpose and high-level programming language?
Ans= 
1) Python is easy to use: It is simple with an easily readable syntax and that makes it well-loved by both seasoned developers and experimental students. 
The simplicity of Python betokens that developers can fixate on genuinely solving the Machine Learning quandary rather than spend all their time (and energy)
understanding just the technical nuances of the language.

2) Python runs on any platform: Not only is Python profoundly utilizer-amicable, but it also runs everywhere. 
It runs on Windows, Unix, Linux, MacOS, and 21 different platforms including z/0s, Solaris, and VMS.

3) Extensive support libraries: It provides large standard libraries that include the areas like string operations, Internet, web accommodation implements, 
operating system interfaces, and protocols. 
Most of the highly used programming tasks are already scripted into it that constrains the length of the codes to be inscribed in Python.

4)Python is accessible: For newcomers and beginners, Python is incredibly easy to learn and use. 
In fact, it’s one of the most accessible programming languages available. 
Part of the reason is the simplified syntax with an emphasis on natural language.
But it’s also because you can write Python code and execute it much faster. 
Whatever the case, it’s a great language for beginners, so it’s where a lot of young developers are getting their start. 
More importantly, experienced developers aren’t left by the wayside, as there’s plenty to do.

5) Incredible Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning support: Python is the number one choice when it comes to rapidly develop and demandable technologies 
like Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. 
Python libraries and packages are no less than a wonder as it withal contains code packages dedicated to programming premium high-level industry-concrete software with
astute machine learning capabilities. 
This is a massive integrated advantage for developers who are disposed to grab opportunities to power next-generation, automated systems utilizing deep learning 
frameworks, and artificial intelligence. Moreover, due to its interoperability, both Python and non-Python developers (unfamiliar with Python ecosystem) should equally 
leverage deep learning frameworks like TensorFlow and Keras library as suggested by IEEE study. 
AI developers can rely on frameworks and libraries to build high-quality neural networks. 
From the perspective of the futuristic engineering world, this is the incontrovertible reason why Python deserves to be regarded as a high-level programming language.


Q2. Why is Python called a dynamically typed language?

Ans=
Python variable assignment is different from some of the popular languages like c, c++ and java.
There is no declaration of a variable, just an assignment statement.

Let us see why?
When we declare a variable in C or alike languages, this sets aside an area of memory for holding values allowed by the data type of the variable.
The memory allocated will be interpreted as the data type suggests. If it’s an integer variable the memory allocated will be read as an integer and so on. 
When we assign or initialize it with some value, that value will get stored at that memory location. 
At compile time, initial value or assigned value will be checked. So we cannot mix types. 
Example: initializing a string value to an int variable is not allowed and the program will not compile.

But Python is a dynamically typed language. It doesn’t know about the type of the variable until the code is run. So declaration is of no use. 
What it does is, It stores that value at some memory location and then binds that variable name to that memory container. 
And makes the contents of the container accessible through that variable name. So the data type does not matter. 
As it will get to know the type of the value at run-time.

Myself Himanshu Surkar currently pursuing by btech from GH raisoni institute of Engineering and Technology
I have work experience of almost 1 year with inueron as as senior big data engineer


